As a liberal arts and sciences college nestled within a world-class research university, Harvard gives you both the freedom to shape your own course of study and the resources to see it through. So, what are you waiting for? Stake a claim and learn from those who challenge it. Ask a complex question and grow from the process of answering it. Master the subjects you love, but never forget to explore the unfamiliar terrain that lies just beyond your comfort zone.
Harvard College's academic opportunities expose you to the world’s richness and complexity. You'll engage in scholarship that explores the human experience from diverse points of view, and dive deeply into a particular field of study. You'll gain a broad foundation of critical thinking skills that prepare you to confidently tackle any challenge.
Research is the key that unlocks new knowledge. At Harvard, we put that power into your hands from the moment you arrive. You can take part in hands-on research projects ranging from leading a study to performing lab work with a faculty mentor.
The Academic Resource Center (ARC) at Harvard University supports Harvard students in developing reading and study strategies, time management skills, and metacognitive approaches to learning. Students have access to academic coaching, peer tutoring, workshops, accountability hours, and additional skills-based resources.
We offer more than 3,700 courses in 50 undergraduate fields of study, which we call concentrations. The nine field clusters below group the concentration disciplines that may share guiding principles, academic interests, and learning objectives. This organization is intended to help you explore the available opportunities and intersections in a more dynamic and relatable way.
From laboratory study to archival research to investigations in the field, Harvard students engage in world-class research across all disciplines and make groundbreaking contributions to their fields.With support from a variety of funding sources, students collaborate with renowned faculty researchers whose work has been featured in top journals and awarded prestigious grants. Whether you assist your professor or lead your own project, you'll receive guidance, support, and the benefit of their expertise.
Life in the Yard First-year students live in dorms with shared suites adjacent to Harvard Yard and eat the majority of meals in Annenberg Hall. This is a place of far-ranging conversations where you'll get to know fellow new students. In addition, you'll engage with your peers during the many activities designed for first-year students.
When you've been around as long as we have, you're bound to pick up a few traditions. Here at Harvard, we take pride in keeping them alive and starting new ones as each student class comes and goes. From legends about the origins of the John Harvard statue to Commencement, stories and rituals are constantly shaping the vibrant culture on campus. Here's a peek at some of the traditions that we keep alive to this day.
Our three main campuses—in Cambridge, Allston, and Boston—are a home to students and faculty, a hub of research and innovation, and a destination for visitors from all over the world.
When was Harvard founded? On September 8, 1636, Harvard, the first college in the American colonies, was founded. Who founded Harvard? Despite popular opinion (and a certain statue) John Harvard did not found Harvard, but he was the first major benefactor and he donated half of his estate and his library of over 400 books to the School. Harvard University was officially founded by a vote by the Great and General Court of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Where is Harvard University located? While many think of Harvard Yard in Cambridge, Massachusetts as Harvard’s campus, the University also has robust campuses in the Longwood and Allston neighborhoods of Boston, Massachusetts. Is Harvard College the same as Harvard University? Harvard College is just one of 14 Harvard Schools. The College is for undergraduate students and the 13 graduate and professional Schools teach the rest of our students.
Native American History at Harvard The education of Native Americans is woven into the long history of Harvard University. The Charter of 1650, which continues to govern Harvard, pledges the University to “the education of English and Indian youth.” From 1655 to 1698, the “Indian College” stood in Harvard Yard, on the site currently occupied by Matthews Hall.It was not until 1970 that a program was established to specifically address Native American issues. In early 1970, the American Indian Program (AIP) emerged on campus.
Harvard granted Charter Drafted by Henry Dunster, the Charter of 1650 called for the Harvard Corporation to consist of seven individuals: the President, five Fellows, and a Treasurer. The Charter named the Corporation as the “President and Fellowes of Harvard College” and transferred to them, in “perpetual succession,” the duties of managing the College. The first changes to the Corporation’s structure since 1650 were implemented in 2010. These include an expansion of the number of Fellows, the establishment of terms of service for Fellows, and the creation of standing committees.
At MIT, we revel in a culture of learning by doing. In 30 departments across five schools and one college, our students combine analytical rigor with curiosity, playful imagination, and an appetite for solving the hardest problems in service to society. Our undergraduates work shoulder to shoulder with faculty, tackle global challenges, pursue fundamental questions, and translate ideas into action. The lifeblood of the Institute’s teaching and research enterprise, our graduate students and postdocs represent one of the most talented and diverse cohorts in the world. From science and engineering to the arts, architecture, humanities, social sciences, and management, and interdisciplinary programs, we offer excellence across the board. We also pioneer digital education — like MITx — which offers flexible access to MIT-rigorous content for learners of all ages.
Schools, Departments & the College Across MIT, faculty help set the global standard of excellence in their disciplines: They are pioneering scholars who love to teach. Deeply engaged in practice, they topple conventional walls between fields in the push for deeper understanding and fresh ideas. In fact, many faculty actively work in at least one of MIT’s interdisciplinary labs, centers, initiatives, and institutes that target crucial challenges, from clean energy to cancer. The MIT Schwarzman College of Computing, opened in fall 2019, is a cross-cutting entity with education and research links across all five schools.
The purpose of the academic program at MIT is to give students a solid command of basic principles, a versatility of insight and perspective concerning natural and social phenomena, the habit of continued learning, and the power that comes from a thorough and systematic approach to learning. From these attributes comes the best assurance for continued professional and personal growth, especially in today's rapidly changing world. The undergraduate academic program is based on a core of General Institute Requirements (GIR) and on the specific curricula offered by departments for undergraduate majors. All undergraduate Courses at MIT lead to the Bachelor of Science (SB) degree. For most undergraduates, degree-granting programs require four years of full-time study.
Student Organization, Leadership and Engagement Office Through co-curricular opportunities and experiences such as student organizations, events, cross-cultural education, civic engagement, and leadership development, students gain invaluable skills and experiential knowledge that they will continue to develop during their time on campus and beyond as future leaders. Whether you are looking to join an organization or grow your skills as a student organization leader, or whether you are looking to learn more about the intersections of identity and dive deeper into your own cultural heritage, the Student Organization, Leadership and Engagement Office is here to support you. From financial transactions and organizational budgeting to large-scale concerts or small craft nights, we have staff and interns who know the resources and opportunities that are best suited to enhance your work. Come in and chat with us, and we’ll help you make great things happen!
Cambridge & Boston MIT is an integral part of its host city of Cambridge, a diverse and vibrant community noted for its intellectual life, history, and thriving innovation climate. With a campus nestled between Central and Kendall Squares, and across the Charles River from Boston’s Back Bay, the Institute is optimally positioned to collaborate with its neighbors and to contribute to its community.
1861: Founding of MIT MIT was founded on April 10, 1861, the date it was granted its official charter by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  This was two days before the start of the Civil War.  Over the next several years plans were made and funds raised, with the first classes beginning in 1865.
William Barton Rogers: Founder The idea for MIT originated with William Barton Rogers, MIT’s first president.  Rogers was a professor of natural philosophy at the College of William and Mary when he described his vision for a “new polytechnic institute” in a letter to his brother Henry in 1846.  Rogers campaigned tirelessly for the creation of the Institute, rallying support and raising funds.
Boston: Original MIT Campus MIT occupied rented space on Summer Street in downtown Boston until its first building was erected in Boston’s Back Bay in 1866. The original building was located on Boylston Street.  The Back Bay campus expanded rapidly and by the end of the century buildings were scattered throughout Copley Square and beginning to spread beyond. The Institute began to explore the possibility of other sites so that its campus could be consolidated.
Students who enjoy learning for its own sake thrive at Stanford. We seek students who have selected a rigorous academic program and achieved distinction in a range of areas. With an approximate 5-to-1 student-to-faculty ratio, Stanford emphasizes close student and faculty interaction. Stanford offers three undergraduate degrees: Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Sciences and Bachelor of Arts and Sciences. Each is designed to achieve balance between depth of knowledge acquired through specialization and breadth of knowledge gained through exploration. Three of Stanford’s seven schools award undergraduate degrees: Humanities and Sciences; Earth, Energy & Environmental Sciences; and Engineering. Undergraduates complete at least 180 units, including major courses, writing and rhetoric requirements, and one year of a foreign language.
The essence of academic life at Stanford is a call to boundless research, service and discovery. It also informs our mission: to promote the advancement of public welfare through educational cultivation with a hands-on approach. The first year at a major research university can be intimidating. That is why Stanford provides the resources to make sure students have the support to guide them, the opportunities to challenge them and the freedom to discover their potential. The Stanford community allows for development of independence in a supported environment as a student charts his or her own personal journey in the environment of a liberal arts college. Above all else, Stanford is distinguished by its remarkable breadth of resources so students can design a unique intellectual adventure to meet their academic and personal goals.
Student Life Stanford students come from more than 70 countries and all 50 United States to live together on one campus. Beginning in a student’s first year to the end of their undergraduate career, Stanford students have a desire to work together in order to make an impact on the world. Beyond the classroom, students build community through housing, campus and service opportunities. With over 100 Rhodes Scholars, 90 Marshall Award winners and 60 Truman Scholars, Stanford students have shown themselves to be committed to making a difference for good in the world, addressing the welfare of others and acknowledging national and global inequities. Stanford varsity teams have won 155 national championships, including 128 NCAA titles. From cheering on their Stanford Cardinal to building awareness, Stanford students inspire and grow everyday.
Student Affairs Comprising more than 25 offices and centers, Student Affairs provides a broad range of services and support to Stanford students, including leadership development, residential programs, public service, career exploration and community engagement.
Housing & Dining Nearly all undergraduates and more than 65% of graduate students reside in 81 undergraduate student residences and 151 graduate on-campus residences. Nine dining halls, a teaching kitchen and organic gardens provide the campus community with healthy, sustainable meals.
Biking is a popular way to get around campus. Transit options also include a free campus shuttle and car-share. Public Safety provides police and emergency services 24 hours a day.
Virtual Campus Walk Follow the path for a virtual self-guided walking tour featuring photos and information about many sites of central campus.
Main Quad and Memorial Court Frederick Law Olmsted planned and designed the Quad in Richardson Romanesque and Mission Revival architectural style. The Quad holds Stanford’s 12 original classrooms from its opening in 1891. Today it houses the School of Humanities & Sciences and is home to many Stanford traditions, such as Senior Dinner on the Quad for graduating seniors. Memorial Court is the main entrance to the Main Quad from Palm drive and features several sculptures by Auguste Rodin.
Stanford University was founded in 1885 by California senator Leland Stanford and his wife, Jane, “to promote the public welfare by exercising an influence in behalf of humanity and civilization.”
When railroad magnate and former California Gov. Leland Stanford and his wife, Jane Lathrop Stanford, lost their only child, Leland, Jr., to typhoid in 1884, they decided to build a university as the most fitting memorial, and deeded to it a large fortune that included the 8,180-acre Palo Alto stock farm that became the campus. The campus is located within the traditional territory of the Muwekma Ohlone Tribe.  The Stanfords made their plans just as the modern research university was taking form. Leland Stanford Junior University – still its legal name – opened Oct. 1, 1891. The Stanfords and founding President David Starr Jordan aimed for their new university to be nonsectarian, co-educational and affordable, to produce cultured and useful graduates, and to teach both the traditional liberal arts and the technology and engineering that were already changing America. Their vision took shape on the oak-dotted fields of the San Francisco Peninsula as a matrix of arcades and quadrangles designed for expansion and the dissolving of barriers between people, disciplines and ideas.
Engineering Professor Frederick Terman, dubbed the “Father of Silicon Valley,” left his stamp by encouraging Stanford students not only to develop but also to commercialize their ideas. In 1937, physicists Russell Varian, Sigurd Varian and William Hansen developed the klystron ultra-high-frequency vacuum tube, paving the way for commercial air navigation, satellite communication and high-energy particle accelerators. In 1939, graduate students William Hewlett and David Packard developed the precision audio oscillator, first low-cost method of measuring audio frequencies, and spun it into the company now known as HP. In 1951, the university developed its Stanford Research Park to house firms led by such innovators. Varian Associates became the first tenants.
The post-World War II era saw many research advances. In 1959, Stanford Medical School moved from San Francisco to the main Palo Alto campus. The 1950s also saw planning of today’s SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, managed under license from the U.S. Department of Energy and opened in 1962. The first website in North America went online at SLAC 29 years later. Advances in particle physics developed at SLAC led to the Linac Coherent Light Source, whose ability to capture ultra-fast images of chemical changes at atomic scale has made it a global destination for pharmaceutical research. The Cold War also gave rise to “the Dish,” the radio telescope that is a familiar landmark in the foothills behind campus. The hill housing the Dish is a conservation area open to the public, and more than 2,000 people run or hike “Dish Hill” each day.
The Leland Stanford Junior University was founded in 1885 by Jane and Leland Stanford in memory of their only child, Leland Jr., who died of typhoid fever at 15. After his 1884 death, the Stanfords determined that they would use their wealth to do something for other people’s children. They decided to create a university that was, from the outset, untraditional: coeducational in a time when most private universities were all-male; nondenominational when most were associated with a religious organization; and practical, producing cultured and useful citizens. The Founding Grant states the university’s objective is “to qualify its students for personal success, and direct usefulness in life” and its purpose “to promote the public welfare by exercising an influence in behalf of humanity and civilization.”
Schools There are six Schools, each of which constitutes an administrative grouping of Faculties and other institutions. They are: Arts and Humanities, Biological Sciences, Clinical Medicine, Humanities and Social Sciences, Physical Sciences, and Technology. There is a Council of each School – including representatives of its Faculties and Departments. The Schools are represented on the General Board.
Cambridge is a great place to be a student. There’s loads going on within the University and Colleges, and there are also over 500 student clubs that you can join - a great opportunity to meet like-minded people or to try something new. 
For me, living and studying in Cambridge was one of the most incredible and challenging experiences of my life. Having access to world-renowned academics is an amazing privilege and the University’s small-group supervision system in particular means that Cambridge offers an outstandingly high-quality educational experience for students. Cambridge students also teach each other so much. Some of the conversations I’ll remember the most are those with my peers, which helped me to view the world from different perspectives and reminded me how important it is to use the privilege of this education to work for a fairer, more just world. I really hope you love the look of Cambridge and want to apply just as much as I did!
Getting around Most University buildings are situated in the city centre and it’s easiest to travel between them on foot or by bicycle (one of the most popular modes of transport for our students). See the University Map for details. Well connected Cambridge is only 60 miles/95 kilometres from London and is well connected to most of the UK from its main station located about a mile from the city centre. There are direct trains to Stansted and Gatwick airports, and Heathrow airport is easily accessible (via London King’s Cross/London St Pancras). See Getting here for further information.
Music Live music is a big part of life in both the city and University, from buskers and pub gigs, to classical concerts and big name acts. The city usually hosts a number of music festivals featuring a wide variety of acts and music styles, including folk, jazz, rock, ska, UK urban and dance.
Pubs, clubs and restaurants Cambridge has a great range of pubs, bars and cafés, from traditional pubs with open fires perfect for a winter evening to modern bars overlooking the river, ideal for a spot of people watching. The city has a mix of clubs offering everything you’d expect – a variety of music nights alongside cheap entry and offers for students. There’s a great selection of places to eat too. Something for any mood, taste, occasion, and price range. Better still, there are lots of discounts and special deals for students at various restaurants and cafés.
Our Students’ Union, Cambridge SU, is a union for all students, undergraduate and postgraduate. Its aim is to make sure that all students are represented, supported and have their voice heard across the University. Cambridge SU is led by a team of eight elected sabbatical officers who campaign and lobby for change across the collegiate University to improve the student experience. Cambridge SU: represents the student interests on University committees
campaigns on students’ priorities, such as mental health provision, structural disadvantages faced by marginalised groups, education policy and climate action supports and connects College student unions (usually called JCRs and MCRs) through training, forums and advice runs the professionally-staffed Student Advice Service manages projects like the Shadowing Scheme for prospective students There are seven campaigns that exist within Cambridge SU; they are communities within the SU’s student membership. Each group has its own committee, events and campaigns that they run. The SU’s current campaigns are: BME Campaign, Class Act Campaign, Disabled Students’ Campaign, Ethical Affairs Campaign, International Students’ Campaign, LGBT+ Campaign, and Women’s Campaign. Every College also has its own students’ union, to which undergraduates are elected to represent students at a College level. Running for election is a great way to have a say in student affairs at your College!
Student life in and around Cambridge is also vibrant. You will find a number of societies, festivals, museums, clubs, restaurants, sports, shopping centres, and much more. However you like to spend your time, there’s always something happening to keep you entertained and to meet new people.
Sport at Cambridge Cambridge offers a diverse range of competitive and recreational sporting opportunities to help you lead a healthy and active lifestyle alongside your academic studies. Whether you want to continue playing a sport you love or try something new, we have more than 80 sports clubs and societies, and the University and Colleges offer a variety of facilities and support services for everyone from beginners to elite athletes.
Sport for everyone At a University level, our teams range from National League hockey to casual badminton, so there are plenty of ways to compete or stay active. You will also find College teams for novices and experts alike. You could get involved in the extensive range of sports available via inter-college competition. You can also try out to represent the University against other universities, and local and national club sides. Many University teams compete in BUCS (British Universities & Colleges Sport) competitions throughout the season, giving them the opportunity to try their talents against the best teams from universities throughout the UK. Varsity matches, played against the University of Oxford across a range of sports, are a highlight of the season.
Cambridge University is recognised as much for its illustrious sporting tradition as it is for its excellence in education, learning and research. Over the past 150 years, the University has been home to some of the world's greatest sportsmen and women, from Michael Atherton, to Emma Pooley, to a host of Olympians and Paralympians. That history translates into a vibrant sports scene in the University today. With a vast range of sports clubs and societies, the University is one of the country's leading centres for student sport. Cambridge regularly places in the top 20 universities in the country in BUCS competition, and a range of scholarships for elite athletes are available. Sport at Cambridge is supported by our world-class facilities. Opened in 2013, the University Sports Centre has a fitness suite, sports hall, squash and fives courts, studios and team training room used by international performance athletes. 
The Sports Service also maintains dedicated athletics and hockey facilities at Wilberforce Road Sports Ground, while cricket and tennis have their home at Fenner's, one of the country's most historic and iconic sports venues. A range of other club and college grounds are available across the city, catering to rugby, rowing, and many other sports besides. The University Sports Service is committed to developing sport within the University and across Cambridgeshire. You can find out more on this website, or you can contact us if you have further questions. 
The University of Cambridge is rich in history – its famous Colleges and University buildings attract visitors from all over the world. But the University's museums and collections also hold many treasures which give an exciting insight into some of the scholarly activities, both past and present, of the University's academics and students. The University is one of the world's oldest universities and leading academic centres, and a self-governed community of scholars. Its reputation for outstanding academic achievement is known worldwide and reflects the intellectual achievement of its students, as well as the world-class original research carried out by the staff of the University and the Colleges. Many of the University's customs and unusual terminology can be traced to roots in the early years of the University's long history, and this section of our website looks to the past to find the origins of much that is distinctive in the University of today.
The Royal Greenwich Observatory relocates to Cambridge, confirming the city among the world's leading centres for the study of astronomy and astrophysics. Its founder in 1676, John Flamsteed, also studied at Cambridge. The Institute of Management Studies is named the Judge Institute following an £8 million benefaction from the businessman, Paul Judge. Mr Simon Sainsbury gives £5 million to support the Institute the same year and Mr Peter Beckwith pledges £1 million the following year.
Techers refer to their majors as an "option." Most students select an option near the end of their first year, begin to specialize during their second year, and concentrate on their chosen field in their third and fourth years. The Institute is divided into six academic divisions: Division of Biology and Biological Engineering Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering Division of Engineering and Applied Science Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences Division of the Humanities and Social Sciences Division of Physics, Mathematics and Astronomy Listed below are the options and minors available to Caltech undergraduates. For details on specific requirements, see the Caltech course catalog.
A Caltech education is notable for its rigorous curriculum, close collaborations with faculty, and small class sizes. Caltech students work toward undergraduate and graduate degrees alongside their intellectual equals in an academic environment that emphasizes interdisciplinary teamwork, critical thinking, mutual support, and a deep understanding of core concepts and principles across fields.
Students graduate from Caltech prepared to become world leaders in science, engineering, academia, industry, and public service. Graduates are well trained in their ability to identify, analyze, and solve challenging problems within and across science and engineering disciplines, as well as expected to be prepared to apply and communicate their expertise broadly throughout their professional careers.
About Undergraduate Education Caltech's nearly 1,000 undergraduate students can choose from 28 options (majors), spread across six academic divisions. Caltech's program not only builds students' expertise in a core area of study and research, but requires a considerable depth and exposure to basic science, humanities, math, and social science overall as the interdisciplinary nature of contemporary research, business, and society require the ability to make connections across disciplines.
On any given day, you'll head to class after breakfast in The Lee F. Browne Dining Hall (formerly the Harry Chandler Dining Hall) or the Red Door Marketplace. As a first-year student, your educational journey will start with our core curriculum, which is a set of required courses for all undergraduates, no matter their area of concentration. The core requirements encompass a variety of classes in math, physics, chemistry, biology, and the humanities and social sciences. You may also find yourself in a freshman seminar or a lunchtime pizza class, where you can explore a range of topics in-depth in the lab, in the classroom, or out in the research field. Most of your classes will have 20 students or fewer, although the first-term required core science and math courses can have as many as 200 students. With our 3:1 student-to-faculty ratio, however, opportunities abound to interact one-on-one with Caltech's scientists and engineers, who are pursuing world-changing research.
Caltech is a small, collaborative community, where faculty, postdoctoral scholars, students, and staff from diverse backgrounds, cultures, and experiences live, work, and engage with one another. Together, they remain committed to setting the example of what its intertwined missions of research and education can accomplish. Caltech is an integral part of Pasadena. Together with JPL, we are the city's largest employer and a source of programs that benefit our neighbors: teachers, businesses, families, cultural centers, and government.
In September 1891, Pasadena philanthropist Amos Throop rented the Wooster Block building in Pasadena for the purpose of establishing Throop University, a forerunner to Caltech. In November of that year, Throop University opened its doors with 31 students and a six-member faculty. Throop might have remained simply a good local school had it not been for the arrival in Pasadena of astronomer George Ellery Hale. The first director of the Mount Wilson Observatory, Hale became a member of Throop's board of trustees in 1907 and began molding the school into a first-class institution for engineering and scientific research and education. By 1921, Hale had been joined by chemist Arthur A. Noyes and physicist Robert A. Millikan. These three men set the school, which by then had been renamed the California Institute of Technology, firmly on its new course. Millikan and his successors (Lee DuBridge, Harold Brown, Marvin Goldberger, Thomas Everhart, David Baltimore, Jean-Lou Chameau, and now Thomas F. Rosenbaum) have led the Institute to its current academic and scientific preeminence.
Studying at Princeton We are a community of learning that is enriched by the wide range of experiences and perspectives of our students, faculty and staff. Undergraduate students benefit from the extraordinary resources of a world-class research institution dedicated to undergraduate teaching, while our graduate students engage in original and independent scholarship and research.
Undergraduate Experience Princeton’s commitment to undergraduate education is profound. As a student, you benefit from the extraordinary resources of a world-class teaching and research university, and our low student-to-faculty ratio means you are able to develop close working relationships with professors who are leaders in their fields. Our curriculum emphasizes learning, creativity, innovation and collaboration with a program of liberal arts in the humanities, arts, social sciences, natural sciences and engineering. You will explore many disciplines and also develop a deep understanding in one area of concentration. From admission to commencement, the undergraduate academic experience is overseen by the Office of the Dean of the College, fostering your intellectual engagement and growth every step along the way.
Developing Your Skills Independent research is a defining feature of a Princeton education. Most students finish their Princeton career doing original research as part of a major capstone project: an undergraduate senior thesis or a graduate dissertation. Here are some of the resources that help students get there. Freshman seminars for undergraduates provide the opportunity to work closely with a professor and a small group of students on a topic of special interest. Writing seminars prepare undergraduates for the rigors of academic research and writing. The Office of Undergraduate Research supports the undergraduate research experience as an integral part of a Princeton education, whether it be taking a research-based class, conducting research in the lab, pursuing independent research beyond campus, or completing your senior thesis. The Writing Center offers free one-on-one sessions with experienced writers trained to consult on projects in any discipline. Writing Center fellows can assist undergraduate and graduate students at any stage of the writing process, and the center also holds events like boot camps for senior thesis and dissertation writing. The McGraw Center for Teaching and Learning helps undergraduates learn advanced strategies to succeed in their academic work and improve their study skills. Programs for graduate students and postdoctoral scholars help them develop as scholars and teachers. 
Liberal Arts Princeton is unique in being a great research university with a profound commitment to the liberal arts. We provide a liberal arts education to all undergraduates, broadening their outlooks, and helping form their characters and values. We encourage students to explore ideas and methods across the humanities, arts, natural sciences, engineering and social sciences. When you graduate from Princeton, you will be prepared for whatever path and passions you choose in life.
With more than 300 student organizations, 38 sports clubs, 15 chaplaincies, and several campus centers, the opportunities for students to explore their interests abound.
Princeton University is committed to building a diverse campus community. Our 5,300 undergraduate students benefit from living and studying at a residential research institution, where faculty and staff devote much of their time and energy to teaching, advising and supporting undergraduates. Princeton University’s 600-acre campus is located in a cosmopolitan town (population 30,000) in central New Jersey, with easy access by train to Philadelphia and New York City, each about 55 miles away.
Princeton guarantees students on-campus housing for all four years and 98 percent of students live on campus. During their first two years, all students are required to live on campus in one of six residential colleges, which offers a variety of academic, social, cultural and recreational programs, as well as academic advising. The colleges are designed to give students a residential experience that takes the fullest possible advantage of the diversity and educational opportunities at Princeton.
The Office of Admission holds general admission information sessions throughout the year. You may combine an information session with a student-led campus tour, which is run by the Orange Key Guide Service. The School of Engineering and Applied Science offers tours of the engineering quad during the academic year. Our 23-stop, student-led virtual tour of the main campus is available in English, Korean, Mandarin and Spanish and includes 360-degree panorama photos and videos. Princeton can also be toured from different perspectives via the GuidiGO mobile app:
Campus Bus System TigerTransit’s shuttle routes circulate through main campus and make connections to the Princeton train station, Forrestal campus, the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory and several local grocery stores. (On-demand service is available after hours.)
Campus is located in Princeton, N.J., approximately one mile west of U.S. Route 1. Visitor parking is available for free on weekdays in Lot 23 (GPS: “Princeton University Lot 23” or lat./long. “40.340605,-74.656773”). On weekends and evenings, visitors may park in most other lots and garages. Metered parking is also available on streets around campus. Visiting for a tour, the undergraduate admission office or the graduate admission office? Park in Lot 23 and take the Route 4 bus to the Admission Information Center located at 36 University Place (adjacent to the University store). Beginning Friday, Dec. 20, the vehicle gates at the Nassau Street entrance to campus will remain closed 24 hours a day, and there will be no vehicle access to campus from Nassau Street. The gates will continue to open for vehicles leaving campus. All vehicles should enter campus on Elm Drive via Faculty Road, where the South Guard Booth will continue to be open and staffed 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Chartered in 1746, Princeton is the fourth-oldest college in the United States. The University has been led by 20 presidents, spanning colonial times to the 21st century.
Princeton University was founded in Elizabeth, New Jersey, in 1746 as the College of New Jersey, shortly before moving into the newly built Nassau Hall in Princeton. In 1783, for about four months Nassau Hall hosted the United States Congress, and many of the students went on to become leaders of the young republic. The institution was formally designated Princeton University in 1896, and soon embarked on a major expansion under the auspices of future president of the USA Woodrow Wilson. Later in the 20th century, the culture became more liberal, and Princeton became coeducational in 1969.
There are four academic divisions within Oxford University. All have a full-time divisional head and an elected divisional board. Also listed are the Department for Continuing Education, and the University's Gardens, Libraries and Museums.
Everyone wants to feel that they belong and can be themselves. Oxford takes the well-being of all of its students very seriously. Every undergraduate belongs to a college, which means you will have your own close-knit Oxford community. You will also have lots of opportunities to join groups, societies and campaigns that celebrate diversity and promote change. 
One of the many myths about Oxford is that there is no time to have fun. Alongside your college community you will be able to develop your interests, old or new, through over 400 clubs and societies, many of them University-wide. Taking part in extra-curricular activities is not only lots of fun and great for your social life but will help you build skills which will stand you in good stead for the rest of your life and help with your career goals.
Visiting Oxford Oxford is a beautiful city of stunning architecture, history and culture. You'll find ancient and modern colleges, fascinating museums and galleries, and plenty of parks, gardens and green spaces in which to relax. Plus, the city centre is small enough to cover on foot, and only a few minutes walk from the main rail and coach stations.
Things to see and do at Oxford University Oxford is not a campus university, so it is not all located on one site. It is made up of many different buildings, including academic departments, colleges and halls, located around the centre of Oxford. Many University buildings, such as gardens, libraries and museums, as well as many of the colleges, are open to visitors during the day, although please note that they may have varying opening hours, fees and rules for groups.
Oxford University does not organise tours but a city walking tour is offered by the Bodleian Libraries in association with the Oxford Guild of Tour Guides. The tours, all operated by Blue and Green Badge Guides, begin at the beautiful modern Weston Library before heading through the historic and famous streets of the city. Tours take around two hours and can be booked through the Bodleian Libraries. A number of independent operators also offer guided tours of Oxford. A range of general and themed tours are available, as are tours by cycle, rickshaw and bus. For a list of tour companies, please visit the Daily Information website. 
Athletics is inclusive to all genders and levels of experience, and we welcome enquiries from those with a disability regarding the accessibility of Athletics. The club trains all year round, competing in indoor and outdoor events, against Cambridge in an annual Varsity match and against other universities at BUCS. Athletics also hosts inter-college tournaments. 
Our Club | Oxford University Athletics Club Whether you are looking for something new or are a well seasoned athlete, OUAC welcomes anyone who wishes to come and train with us. The club is currently going from strength to strength and we are always looking for new people to join the team. There is no pressure to come to sessions; the choice as to what you do is entirely up to you! Aside from the training, we have a good social scene which has contributed to the fantastic team atmosphere that currently surrounds the club. If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to get in touch. For the Americans out there athletics means track & field We have close links with OU Cross Country Club who also enjoy running!
Oxford University Lawn Tennis Club boasts 5 Men’s and 5 Women’s teams, and also offers weekly coaching for its social members. It is a club for all standards, whether experienced players who are looking to test themselves against some of the best university sides in the country, or complete beginners, who want to learn the basics. There are opportunities to compete against other universities at BUCS and against Cambridge in an annual Varsity. 
How it all began In the 8th century the first abbey was built in Oxford: that of St Frideswide. So began a long tradition of religious scholarship in the city – and St Frideswide, whose name means ‘bond of peace’, is still Oxford’s patron saint. Pottery, weaving and tanning were the original trades of early Oxford. As the scholars gathered, however, so did landlords, stonemasons, paper makers, bookbinders, scribes, printers, tailors and shoemakers. In the 12th century Henry II and his court regularly came to his palace at Beaumont, just outside the city wall. The court needed scholars trained in law to cope with the complexities of administration. Unable to travel to Paris while relations between England and France were strained, more scholars began to join them in Oxford. Education was often confined to the seven liberal arts; three of them taught together, Logic, Rhetoric and Grammar, were known as the trivium.
A Yale education is not a narrow path that students follow from Point A to Point Z. We encourage our students to explore the academic landscape, venturing into unfamiliar fields of knowledge and, perhaps, discovering new passions that will take them in a different direction altogether. Along the way, faculty members help guide them, and fellow students offer diverse perspectives that can shed new light on the path. We also encourage our students to travel literally, by going abroad for study, research, or work. By nurturing this spirit of inquiry, Yale aims to prepare global citizens who are instilled with a life-long love of learning.
Yale is more than an institution of higher learning; it is a community where people of diverse cultures and nationalities live, work, and play — connected by their similarities and enriched by their differences. Our community members have a wide range of talents, interests, vocations, and needs, and the university is committed to providing the services and opportunities to keep them strong in mind, body, and spirit. We celebrate our hometown of New Haven, CT for all that it offers, including its renowned restaurants, shops, and cultural attractions.
Yale’s tree-lined campus in New Haven has housed “a company of scholars and a society of friends” for more than 300 years. Today it’s also home to some of the world’s most comprehensive research libraries, global art collections, and laboratory spaces. Enjoy a (digital) stroll through what one architecture critic has called “the most beautiful urban campus in America” with the Virtual Tour.
Yale University is situated 90 minutes from New York in the city of New Haven, Connecticut. Whether you’re in town for an admissions information session or simply want to join one of the many activities happening here, we invite you to explore our campus and community. Take a guided tour, attend a concert, or stroll through our scenic and historic Old Campus.
Intramurals provide an opportunity for undergraduate students to participate in team and individual sports against other Yale college teams. The purpose of intramural sports is to provide exercise, recreation, socializations, light competition and fun to all levels of participants. The main differences between club sports and intramurals are that club athletes perform at a higher competitive and commitment level, host and travel to other universities to compete, and arrange their own practices, competitions, equipment, fundraising and budgets under the guidance of the Club Sports Office. Both programs, however, are largely student governed.
Yale has grown and evolved for 300-plus years, passing many milestones and forging traditions along the way. The university traces its roots to the 1640s, when colonial clergymen led an effort to establish a local college in the tradition of European liberal education. In 1701 the Connecticut legislature adopted a charter “to erect a Collegiate School.” The school officially became Yale College in 1718, when it was renamed in honor of Welsh merchant Elihu Yale, who had donated the proceeds from the sale of nine bales of goods together with 417 books and a portrait of King George I. Take a stroll through Yale’s three centuries of history, and learn about the traditions that have become part of the fabric of our university.
Yale University had its beginnings with the founding of the New Haven Colony in 1638 by a band of 500 Puritans who fled from persecution in Anglican England. It was the dream of the Reverend John Davenport, the religious leader of the colony, to establish a theocracy and a college to educate its leaders. Purchases and plans for a college library date back to 1656 but were suspended when King Charles II forced the colony to unite with Connecticut in 1665. According to the early histories of Yale, a group of ten ministers led by the Reverend James Pierpont of New Haven met in nearby Branford in 1700 to found a college. Each minister presented a donation of books, stating, “I give these books for the founding [of] a College in this Colony.”
Connecticut Hall, a fine brick structure (now the oldest standing Yale and New Haven building), was constructed in the early 1750s. Students and alumni of the 1770s so actively supported the American revolutionary cause that the British looked upon Yale as a hotbed of sedition. Yale patriots included Nathan Hale, Noah Webster, Joel Barlow, and Timothy Dwight. On July 4, 1779 Yale President Ezra Stiles (1778–1795) first spied the British fleet approaching New Haven harbor through his telescope from the steeple of the college chapel. The student militia helped defend the town the following day.
The University offers an outstanding and comprehensive array of academic programs. These include three undergraduate schools, thirteen graduate and professional schools, a world-renowned medical center, four affiliated colleges and seminaries, twenty-five libraries, and more than one hundred research centers and institutes.
We are a diverse, academic community of more than 40,000 students, faculty, and staff from across the nation and the world, living and learning on dynamic campuses in a great, global city.
Undergraduate Student Life works to foster a welcoming and inclusive community by supporting undergraduate students in the development of skills and awareness of self and others required to responsibly engage, serve and lead at Columbia, in New York City and beyond. In three areas, Multicultural Affairs, Residential Life and Student Engagement, we oversee the new student orientation program, affinity groups, organizational advising, heritage months, community programming, fraternity and sorority life — and so much more.
This is a place unlike any other - where Columbia College and Columbia Engineering students form a community of bright, curious individuals living and learning together in a truly one-of-a-kind environment. Our students come together from every background and every corner of the globe to engage and explore, to see new adventures and perspectives, to build connections and lifelong friendships, and to pursue a better world.
Columbia Housing provides our undergraduate residential students with safe and comfortable accommodations, and a friendly face whenever they have questions or concerns. We're responsible for maintaining the physical integrity, cleanliness and operations of Columbia's 30+ undergraduate residence halls. While we manage a lot of moving parts to keep our buildings in top shape, our number one priority is our undergraduate student residents.
Columbia University, located in New York City on Manhattan’s Upper West Side, is one of the world’s leading institutions of higher education and research. Founded as King’s College in 1754 and a member of the Ivy League since its inception in 1956, Columbia today comprises 16 undergraduate, graduate and professional schools. The University offers 6,350 courses in 69 academic departments and divisions, covering the arts and sciences, and the professions of architecture, arts, business, dentistry, engineering, international affairs, journalism, law, medicine, nursing, public health, planning and preservation, public affairs and social work. Columbia’s historic main campus consists of 71 buildings on 36 acres and was originally designed by the architectural firm of McKim, Mead and White. Walking tours of the main campus are offered through The Visitors Center, 213 Low Memorial Library. Please call (212) 854–4900 to arrange to take one. We invite you to view a cross section of academic and administrative buildings on this interactive tour.
Columbia University was founded in 1754 as King's College by royal charter of King George II of England. It is the oldest institution of higher learning in the state of New York and the fifth oldest in the United States. Controversy preceded the founding of the College, with various groups competing to determine its location and religious affiliation. Advocates of New York City met with success on the first point, while the Anglicans prevailed on the latter. However, all constituencies agreed to commit themselves to principles of religious liberty in establishing the policies of the College.
In 1857, the College moved from Park Place, near the present site of city hall, to Forty-ninth Street and Madison Avenue, where it remained for the next forty years. During the last half of the nineteenth century, Columbia rapidly assumed the shape of a modern university. The Columbia School of Law was founded in 1858. The country's first mining school, a precursor of today's Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, was established in 1864 and awarded the first Columbia Ph.D. in 1875.
From 10 faculty members, 40 students and three fields of study at the time of its founding, UC Berkeley has grown to more than 1,600 faculty, 35,000 students and over 350 degree programs in 130 academic departments and 80 interdisciplinary research units.
A Berkeley undergraduate education can transform your life. With approximately 13,000 undergraduate courses, labs, and sections to choose from (taught annually), you can create a rich and personal academic experience and still graduate in four years. You can double (or triple) major, study abroad, do research with faculty, and more.
UC Berkeley is also the only university with a (nearly) half-century tradition of student-run democratic education, De-Cal, a program allowing students to create and facilitate their own classes. Another outstanding aspect of a Berkeley undergraduate education is research. We are the only university to offer undergraduates the opportunity to conduct cutting-edge research as early their freshman year and outside of their major. Research opportunities for undergraduates include many College-specific programs, the Big Ideas Initiative, and Undergraduate Research Apprentice Program.
Life at Berkeley doesn't stand still. With over 35,000 students from around the world and a vibrant urban setting, it's no wonder the campus community talks about a "fear of missing out." Jump in and find out how dynamic and interconnected life at Berkeley can be.
Want to get a taste of life at Berkeley? Daily activities, performances and events are open to the campus community and the general public. Expand your mind, stroll through the redwoods and root for the Golden Bears.
Following the gold rush that brought hundreds of thousands of people to the state, the University of California is founded when two institutions merge - the private College of California in Oakland, and a new state land-grant institution, the Agricultural, Mining and Mechanical Arts College. Leaders of the two institutions decide to join the two schools. A mere 10 faculty members and 40 students make up the new university when it opens.
In 1866, the College of California, a private institution in Oakland founded by Andover and Yale alumnus Henry Durant, purchased the land that comprises the current Berkeley campus, and the State of California established an agricultural, mining, and mechanical arts college, which existed only as a legal entity to secure federal funds under the Morrill Act. Signed by President Lincoln in 1862, the Morrill Act provided for the capitalization of public universities by federal land grant. In 1867, through the good offices of then-governor Frederick Low, the financially struggling College of California agreed to a merger with the state college. On March 23, 1868, Governor Henry H. Haight signed the Organic Act, which established the University of California as the state's first land-grant university. Although the founding of the University of California is often incorrectly mistaken for a merger, the Organic Act created a "completely new institution" and did not actually merge the two precursor entities into the new university.[1]
We inspire talented and curious students by encouraging intellectual exploration, fearless analysis, and the pursuit of bold new questions. Through our uniquely UChicago curriculum and style of teaching, we engage young minds with formative ideas and approaches in an environment where they are challenged by leading scholars—and taught to challenge in return.
The College Center for Research and Fellowships (CCRF) supports students as they pursue transformative experiences through scholarly undergraduate research and nationally competitive fellowships. The CCRF promotes meaningful connections between faculty and students, encourages mentorship, provides high-impact advising and events, and educates the broader UChicago community about these opportunities for all UChicago College students and alumni.
Complementing the breadth of UChicago's Core curriculum are 53 majors and 59 minors, as well as dozens of areas of specialized study and pre-professional preparation, all part of the UChicago undergraduate experience.
Created by the College’s faculty, UChicago’s five collegiate divisions oversee all undergraduate academic programs and general education course offerings. Working with the Dean of the College, these collegiate divisions maintain a balance between a demand for specialization and the need to provide a strong academic foundation for students. For students interested in pursuing graduate education, each collegiate division—with the exception of the New Collegiate Division—is affiliated with a corresponding graduate division of the University, affording convenient avenues for College students to gain insights into graduate studies while still enrolled in the College.
Student life is about experiencing UChicago at its fullest. Through the College and University's programming and more than 400 student organizations, UChicago offers activities year-round to fulfill intellectual and personal interests—ranging from civic, political, and entrepreneurial opportunities to intramural sports, music groups, theater, improv comedy, and more.
At UChicago, the more voices we have around the table, the better intellectual inquiry and discovery work. Not only is our undergraduate community proudly comprised of students of all backgrounds, walks of life, and geographic locations, but we also have numerous organizations and resources committed to inclusion and belonging.
When our students are not in the classroom, they are out changing the world, holding lively debates inside the Grounds of Being coffee shop, experiencing each other’s cultures at student-run celebrations, or studying together in one of the University’s storied libraries.
The University of Chicago is located in the historic, residential neighborhood of Hyde Park, just 20 minutes south of downtown Chicago. This location provides students the best of two worlds: a comfortable home in a neighborhood with a college-town feel, and easy access to everything else going on in a world-class city.
We invite you to come see for yourself, or take a video tour! Stroll across grassy quadrangles, among hundred-year-old trees, and around Botany Pond on our 217-acre campus, designated as a botanic garden. Look up now to see the gargoyles and grotesques peering down from ivy-covered Collegiate Gothic buildings, and now to see the glassy contours of modern buildings designed by renowned architects. Then, step inside to follow in the footsteps of Nobel laureates, join in impassioned but respectful discussion in a Core class, observe researchers pushing the boundaries of human knowledge, and see new lifelong friendships forming in a House community.
Campus is at the heart of the neighborhood of Hyde Park, a home to lifelong residents, diverse ideas, beautiful vistas, and thriving culture. Hyde Park is also home to more than 60 percent of our faculty and their families. Parks, schools, restaurants, cafes, beautiful lakefront beaches and vistas, and community arts activities abound, and the streets of Hyde Park are abuzz with pedestrian traffic. Students actively engage with all the neighborhood has to offer, including museums, restaurants, the 57th Street Art Fair, historic sights, the Hyde Park Jazz Festival, movies, concerts, plays, the Neighborhood Schools Program, and other research and volunteering opportunities.
Chicago is our laboratory, our playground, and our muse. Students take advantage of Chicago’s internships, sports, neighborhoods, concerts, restaurants, and vast research opportunities. Through the Chicago Studies Program, they even study the city itself.
The University of Chicago is located in the neighborhood of Hyde Park, twenty minutes south of the city center (also known as the Loop). Hyde Park is easily accessible from the Loop and other parts of the city by car, taxi, train, or bus. If you are coming to campus from the city center, we suggest a car or rideshare service for ease. Use 5828 S. University as your drop off address.
Intramurals and Sport Club programs give students opportunities to participate in sports in an organized, competitive environment. Participants in UChicago's intramural and sports programs have the opportunity to build community, develop interpersonal skills, socialize with others, and stay healthy. Approximately 8,500 undergraduate and graduate students participate in the intramural sports program (double counting those students who participate in more than one sport). Approximately 1,100 people participate in 39 different sport clubs.
The Sport Clubs program is comprised of groups of individuals organized to further their interest in common physical activity through instruction, recreation and/or competition. Sport Club membership must be composed solely of University of Chicago students, faculty, staff, alumni, and/or their spouses. Sport Clubs are driven by their student members and are supported and funded by the University for the benefit of these students.
Since 1890, UChicago has followed a distinctively different path. Our founders defined what they believed would build an enduring legacy: a commitment to rigorous academics for people of all backgrounds.
THE CORNELL EXPERIENCE You'll interact closely with world-class faculty and a diverse student body, each a collaborator in learning, in research, and in service. They're here to help you push yourself and your ideas further than you could ever push them on your own.
Cornell University is a private research university that provides an exceptional education for undergraduates and graduate and professional students. Cornell's colleges and schools — including four “contract colleges” (operated by Cornell under contract with New York state) — encompass more than 100 fields of study, many of which provide opportunities for learning and engagement that span the state, the nation and the world. With locations in Ithaca, New York, New York City and Doha, Qatar, Cornell creates a unique atmosphere for research, teaching and public engagement.
Student Life Experience a community that values critical thinking, encourages self-discovery and embraces all walks of life — all surrounded by natural majesty that will inspire your creativity and deepen your focus.
Campus Activities provides vibrant and supportive opportunities that promote and nurture student learning, the practice of leadership, social responsibility, interpersonal skill-building and self-awareness through experiential learning. We bring students and student communities together to: Foster/create a sense of belonging Gain an understanding of, and an appreciation for, diversity Promote health and well-being Foster personal awareness Actively engage in and prepare for their roles as global citizens We cultivate students’ active engagement in Cornell University through registered student organizations, volunteer and employment opportunities as well as participation in events, programs, workshops, and training.
The main campus is marked by an irregular layout and eclectic architectural styles, including ornate Collegiate Gothic, Victorian, and Neoclassical buildings, and the more spare international and modernist structures. The more ornate buildings generally predate World War II. The student population doubled from 7,000 in 1950 to 15,000 by 1970, at a time when architectural styles favored modernism.[44] While some buildings are neatly arranged into quadrangles, others are packed densely and haphazardly. These eccentricities arose from the university's numerous, ever-changing master plans for the campus. For example, in one of the earliest plans, Frederick Law Olmsted, the designer of Central Park, proposed a "grand terrace" overlooking Cayuga Lake.[45]
Several of the university buildings are listed as historic landmarks.[46] Those listed on the National Register of Historic Places include the Andrew Dickson White House, Bailey Hall, Caldwell Hall, the Computing and Communications Center (formerly Comstock Hall), Morrill Hall, Rice Hall, Fernow Hall, Wing Hall, Llenroc, and 13 South Avenue (Deke House).[47] At least three other historic buildings—the original Roberts Hall, East Robert Hall and Stone Hall—have also been listed on the NRHP. However, the university demolished them in the 1980s, to make way for other development.[48] In September 2011, Travel+Leisure listed the Ithaca Campus as among the most beautiful in the United States.[49]
Cornell Intramural Sports Mission Statement The mission of Intramural Sports is to establish fun, safe, and positive activities for all individuals. Participation opportunities for casual and competitive play are provided. Contests, meets, leagues, and tournaments will be offered in various formats. Come play what suits you!
There are many ways to stay connected, active, mindful and recreate during hybrid & in-person learning and working. CFC Fitness Classes Fitness Centers Students with a CFC Membership as well as Faculty, Staff, Retirees & Emeritus Faculty who have a Recreation Membership through the Cornell Wellness Program can use the Fitness Centers! Intramural Sports  Team and invididual competitions are available each semester. Lap Swimming Free to Cornell Students and available to Cornell Faculty, Staff, Retirees & Emeritus Faculty with a Recreation Membership through the Cornell Wellness Program. Bowling in Helen Newman Hall. Affordable rates and paper & pencil scoring. Helen Newman Hall Gymnasium  Play basketball, volleyball and badminton. Free for Students! Physical Education  Classes currently only available to Cornell Undergraduate Students, some classes are FREE.
Cornell University was founded on April 27, 1865; the New York State (NYS) legislature authorized the university as the state's land grant institution.[17] Senator Ezra Cornell offered his farm in Ithaca, New York, as a site and $500,000 of his personal fortune as an initial endowment. Fellow senator and educator Andrew Dickson White agreed to be the first president. During the next three years, White oversaw the construction of the first two buildings and traveled to attract students and faculty.[18] The university was inaugurated on October 7, 1868, and 412 men were enrolled the next day.[19]
Cornell developed as a technologically innovative institution, applying its research to its own campus and to outreach efforts. For example, in 1883, it was one of the first university campuses to use electricity from a water-powered dynamo to light the grounds.[20] Since 1894, Cornell has included colleges that are state funded and fulfill statutory requirements;[21] it has also administered research and extension activities that have been jointly funded by state and federal matching programs.[22]
Penn’s academics are boosted by its inherent culture and ecosystem of innovation. You name it, if it’s cutting-edge, the University’s faculty—and students—have their hands in it. Grounded in the liberal arts and sciences and enriched by the integrated resources of four undergraduate and 12 graduate schools, Penn offers students an unparalleled education informed by inclusivity, intellectual rigor, research, and the impetus to create new knowledge to the benefit of individuals and communities around the world.
Interdisciplinary Education With all 12 of Penn’s schools on one contiguous campus, it’s often that researchers and students are reaching across boundaries for their work and study. Interdisciplinary opportunities at Penn allow students to express their academic creativity and discover new ways of synthesizing information.
Penn’s undergraduate students have the opportunity to pursue nearly 100 majors across four schools. They also often engage across disciplines, forging new paths in research and scholarship. Dual Degree Supported by dedicated faculty advisers, students may pursue more than one Penn degree, still graduate in four years, and enjoy an active life beyond the classroom.
Penn’s 12 schools include some of the top-rated undergraduate and graduate programs in the world. Because they share one contiguous campus, collaboration and the integration of knowledge across the disciplines happens in formal and informal settings every day. The unique aspect of a Penn education prepares students to excel in an increasingly complex 21st century world.
The School of Arts & Sciences houses 27 departments and nearly 500 faculty scholars with honors that include the National Medal of Science, the MacArthur Fellowship, Pulitzer and Nobel Prizes. Penn’s intellectual core, SAS enrolls nearly half the University students and is integral in the education of all undergraduates as well as many graduate and professional students, lifelong learners, and working professionals. Undergraduate offerings include more than 50 majors, signature interdisciplinary programs, and distinguished dual-degree programs. The Graduate Division includes over 30 graduate groups and offers the degrees of Master of Arts, Master of Science, Master of Philosophy, and Doctor of Philosophy.
Students at Penn live and learn in a vibrant city full of opportunities. Try out clubs and activities that spark your curiosity—you’ll definitely discover the unexpected along the way.
Groups & Organizations Participate in social, political, artistic, and multicultural activities that put learning into practice.
Penn’s six cultural resource centers provide a welcoming forum—and a home away from home—for students of all backgrounds who are interested in enriching their knowledge, finding encouragement, testing ideas, asking questions, and initiating change.
Philadelphia—a historic city and vibrant cultural center—infuses Penn with the energy of urban life. Students, faculty, and staff enjoy cultural offerings that include museums and galleries, theater, dance, music, historical landmarks, and the cuisine of renowned chefs. To fulfill Penn’s commitment to local engagement—an important part of President Amy Gutmann’s Penn Compact 2022—Penn collaborates with local communities on many bold initiatives. Penn seeks to promote safe neighborhoods, attract and support area businesses, encourage homeownership, and improve public education. The Netter Center for Community Partnerships oversees a powerful array of projects and programs, with multiple initiatives to improve West Philadelphia education, including developing early childhood reading and math skills, raising interest in science, and bridging the digital divide. Other programs include Community Arts Partnership, which place an artist-in-residence in the West Philadelphia schools, supports after-school programs, and fund a Penn-West Philadelphia arts exchange called the Foundation.
As rich and varied as Penn’s campus offerings are, the city that surrounds us provides even more opportunities to explore. When you venture off-campus, you’ll find yourself in the heart of Philadelphia, a vibrant urban center that is home to world-recognized museums, historical destinations, professional and collegiate athletic teams, and more.
Fall on Penn’s campus, as ever, is awash in a majestic spread of gold, red, and orange. The beauty highlights the necessity of mitigating climate change, which could lead to less stunning foliar color.
A proud member of the Ivy League, Penn offers many unique and exciting opportunities for students, faculty, and staff to cheer on the mighty Quakers, participate in competitive team sports, and stay physically fit at state-of-the-art, world-class training centers.
Penn Athletics provides intercollegiate and recreational opportunities that enrich the Penn student experience, and makes athletic facilities and activities available to the entire campus community.
Campus Recreation offers recreational activities and facilities to the entire Penn community. Activities include yoga and fitness classes, sports clubs, intramurals, outdoor adventures, and much more.
The Intramural Sports program provides organized sport activities that promote participation and socialization between groups and individuals, enhance physical fitness, and foster a spirit of fair play and sportsmanship.
Find information on a variety of competitive, instructional, and recreational sport clubs. A sampling of these includes aikido, cricket, curling, figure skating, ping pong, and synchronized swimming.
Campus Recreation offers fitness and wellness programs to meet the health and fitness goals of each member of the Penn community. Programs and services include group exercise, personal training, instructional courses, the Pilates Studio, and massage therapy.
Penn dates its founding to 1740, when a plan emerged to build a Philadelphia charity school that would double as a house of worship. After construction was underway, however, the cost was seen to be much greater than the available resources, and the project went unfinished for a decade.
In the years that followed, Penn went on to obtain a collegiate charter (1755), graduate its first class (1757), establish the first medical school in the American colonies (1765) and become the first American institution of higher education to be named a university (1779). In 1802, the University expanded to another campus, but by the 1860s had outgrown even that space, so in 1872 the trustees built a new campus in the street-car suburb of West Philadelphia.
College Hall, completed in 1873, was the first building constructed on the University's present site. It once housed all functions of the University and now contains the offices of the President, Provost, and Undergraduate Admissions, as well as classrooms.
At present, the University of Tokyo has 10 Faculties, 15 Graduate Schools, 11 affiliated Institutes, four University Joint Education and Research Institutes, three Institutes for Advanced Study, four Interdisciplinary Research Institutes, three National Joint-Use Institutes and over 40 Collaborative Research Organizations. The University’s three major campuses are located in the Hongo, Komaba and Kashiwa areas. In addition, there are over 50 University facilities across Japan, together with over 40 overseas facilities. With a wide range of world-class facilities, UTokyo offers ideal opportunities for educational, research and international activities. For more information, please visit the pages below.
The University of Tokyo has a total of 10 Faculties. A key feature of the undergraduate education at the University of Tokyo is that the first two years (referred to as the Junior Division) are devoted to the acquisition of fundamental skills necessary for further study. In the final two years of undergraduate education (referred to as the Senior Division), students pursue their fields of specialization.
There are over 450 student organizations that are run by students on campus and these range from team and individual sports to voluntary work. We encourage everyone to actively take part in these activities which will make their campus lives more vibrant. For a list of clubs and societies, please see the University’s webpage (Japanese only).
Komaba is located in the Southwest of Tokyo and is a peaceful residential area hosting two University of Tokyo campuses (Komaba I and II). There are many facilities in the local area including public parks and a swimming pool. There are also places of interest such as the Japan Folk Crafts Museum (Nihon Mingeikan) and the Old Marquess of Maeda Mansion in Komaba Park.
Facilities on Campus Library, Cafeterias and Restaurants, Co-op Shop(external link), Bookstore, Computer Labs, Komaba Museum, Training Gym, Athletic Fields (rugby, baseball, etc.), Tennis Courts, etc. are available.
The Hongo campus has many historic buildings including Yasuda Auditorium, the first registered tangible cultural heritage property in Tokyo. Other examples of registered cultural heritage sites are the Main Gate, including the porter's lodge; buildings 1, 2 and 3 of the Faculty of Law & Letters; the building housing the Faculty of Engineering (Reppin-kan); and building 1 of the Faculty of Engineering. Many campus buildings were designed by Yoshikazu Uchida in the Gothic style known as Uchida Gothic. One of the most notable examples of this style is the Faculty of Medicine Building 3, the administration building for Medicine; however, there are many other Uchida Gothics on campus.
This Arena is equipped with a number of athletic facilities, including an all-weather artificial sports field that is lit up at night, a training room with a full-time trainer on-site, a warm-water swimming pool filled with water made exceptionally clear due to the use of an advanced antibacterial system and a multipurpose gymnasium for a large variety of sports. In addition, the Arena holds a wide array of athletic programs, such as classes for aerobics, tai chi chuan, yoga, Pilates, savate and bouldering. Many students, faculty members, staff and others use these facilities and participate in these programs.
The merging of Tokyo Kaisei School and Tokyo Medical School created the four Faculties of Law, Science, Letters and Medicine, which came together with a university preparatory school (yobimon; the First Higher School of Japan’s predecessor) to form the University of Tokyo. At first, the three Faculties of Law, Science and Letters were located in the Kanda area, while the Faculty of Medicine was established in the Hongo area. From these beginnings, the University of Tokyo continued to merge with many different schools specializing in various fields, such as the Imperial College of Engineering and Tokyo School of Agriculture and Forestry, thereby growing into a comprehensive research university. The University also has experienced a number of name changes over the years. Due to the incorporation of all national universities in 2004, the University’s full name is now National University Corporation, the University of Tokyo.
The university was chartered by the Meiji government in 1877 under its current name by amalgamating older government schools for medicine, various traditional scholars and modern learning. It was renamed "the Imperial University (帝國大學, Teikoku daigaku)" in 1886, and then Tokyo Imperial University (東京帝國大學, Tōkyō teikoku daigaku) in 1897 when the Imperial University system was created. In September 1923, an earthquake and the following fires destroyed about 750,000 volumes of the Imperial University Library.[16][17] The books lost included the Hoshino Library (星野文庫, Hoshino bunko), a collection of about 10,000 books.[17][18] The books were the former possessions of Hoshino Hisashi before becoming part of the library of the university and were mainly about Chinese philosophy and history. After Japan's defeat in World War II in 1947, it re-assumed its original name. With the start of the new university system in 1949, Todai swallowed up the former First Higher School (today's Komaba campus) and the former Tokyo Higher School, which thenceforth assumed the duty of teaching first- and second-year undergraduates, while the faculties on Hongo main campus took care of third- and fourth-year students.
The origin of the university goes back to the Institute for Astronomy, established in 1684 by the Tokugawa Shogunate, and the Vaccination Center established by a private medical doctor in 1858. The Institute for Astronomy developed into Kaisei School in 1868. The Vaccination Center became a governmental facility in 1860, then Medical Insitute in 1863, then Tokyo Medical School in 1874.
The University of Tokyo is composed of three campuses, formulated around a tripolar structure. These three main campuses are Hongo, Komaba, Kashiwa. In addition, other facilities are situated in other parts of Tokyo, including the Shirokane and Nakano campuses, as well as in more distant parts of Japan. Most of the graduate schools and undergraduate departments are located on the Hongo campus. This campus also includes the General Library, Student Counseling Center, and University Hospital. The Komaba campus contains several research centers and laboratories as well as a day care center and many athletic facilities. The smaller Kashiwa Campus houses the Graduate School of Frontier Sciences as well as the institutes for cosmic ray research and solid state physics and other facilities. The Human Genome Center is located on the Shirokane Campus, and the Nakano Campus contains the Ocean Research Institute and Secondary Education School.
Johns Hopkins University faculty and students study, teach, and learn across more than 400 programs in the arts and music, the humanities, the social and natural sciences, engineering, international studies, education, business, and the health professions. Use the interactive program explorer to browse the programs that JHU offers. Sort by division and/or degree type, or use the keyword search to get started.
In 2018, we awarded more than 1,500 bachelor’s degrees—most to undergraduates from the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences and the Whiting School of Engineering, but also to students from our Peabody Conservatory and School of Education. The university offers 52 academic majors and 48 minors at its Homewood campus, and—with no core curriculum—the freedom to explore and combine your academic interests.
Hopkins attracts students with diverse backgrounds and interests. Whatever you’re into—singing or kayaking, taking pictures or building robots, discussing international relations or playing Quidditch (yes, we have a team)—there’s bound to be a group for you. We encourage our students to form their own clubs, so there are more than 400 undergraduate student-run clubs and organizations:
Living on campus is an indispensable piece of the Hopkins undergraduate experience—nearly all our Homewood campus-based undergraduates live in residence halls during their first two years, and some stay longer. Underclassmen have two options: Traditional residence halls, which contain mainly doubles (that’s you and one roommate), with a few singles, and shared bathrooms Suite-style arrangements, which include doubles, singles, or triples; private bathrooms; and central heating/air conditioning (some also have small kitchenettes) For others, there are plenty of apartments and houses for rent within walking distance of all four of our Baltimore campuses. JHU’s Off-Campus Housing Office, which publishes listings for available properties, can help.
We have 24 varsity sports teams, and more than half of our undergrads play intramural or club sports. In the spring, everyone comes together for the nation’s largest student-run festival, Spring Fair, a three-day celebration featuring music and merriment (and yes, funnel cakes).
Most Johns Hopkins undergraduates study at Homewood, the 140-acre North Baltimore campus that has been home to our School of Engineering since 1914 and our School of Arts & Sciences since 1916. Today, about 5,000 undergrads take courses offered by those two schools at Homewood, which is also home to dozens of research labs, two libraries, residence halls, administrative buildings, and athletic and recreation facilities.
Homewood is a traditional college setting in the heart of a big city: Think red-brick buildings and tree-lined pathways, an iconic clock tower, and expansive green quads in a city with a rich history that has blossomed into a hub of social, cultural, and economic activity. The campus is spacious and wooded, like a park. There’s even an area we call The Beach, where students can spread out a blanket on the grass to read, hang out with friends, or people-watch (sorry, there’s no sand or surf).
Beyond varsity sports, many students take part in one or more of the university’s 10 intramural sports, which include 3-on-3 basketball, flag football, innertube water polo, and wallyball. There are also approximately 40 club sports, including badminton, Brazilian jujitsu, cricket, ice hockey, ultimate frisbee, water polo, and—for aspiring wizards—Quidditch.
Johns Hopkins University is based in Baltimore, but our 10 divisions are spread out across 10 campuses on three continents. We have four Baltimore campuses: Homewood, where our schools of Arts and Sciences, Engineering, and Education are located; East Baltimore, home to our schools of Medicine, Nursing, and Public Health as well as the world-renowned Johns Hopkins Hospital; the Peabody campus, site of the Peabody Institute, the nation’s oldest conservatory; and Harbor East, the waterfront home of the Carey Business School. Our School of Advanced International Studies is based in Washington, D.C., about an hour south of Baltimore, but also has campuses in Italy and China. And our Applied Physics Laboratory, the nation’s largest university-affiliated research center, is based in nearby Laurel, Maryland.
Johns Hopkins University opened in 1876 with the inauguration of our first president, Daniel Coit Gilman. He guided the opening of the university and other institutions, including the university press, the hospital, and the schools of nursing and medicine. The original academic building on the Homewood campus, Gilman Hall, is named in his honor.
The university takes its name from 19th-century Maryland philanthropist Johns Hopkins, an entrepreneur with Quaker roots who believed in improving public health and education in Baltimore and beyond. Previously adopted accounts portray Johns Hopkins as an early abolitionist whose parents had freed the family’s enslaved people in the early 1800s. New research has uncovered census records that indicate enslaved people were among the individuals living and laboring in Johns Hopkins’ home in 1840 and 1850, with the latter document denoting Johns Hopkins as the slaveholder. Other new findings documented additional links between the Hopkins family and slavery, as well as indentured servitude.  Researchers are investigating these records in tandem with other archival documents to offer a more nuanced and complex understanding of the Hopkins family’s relationship with slavery. More information about the university’s investigation of this history is available at the Hopkins Retrospective website.
ETH Zurich teaches fundamental knowledge and skills at the highest international level to ensure its students are equipped to deal with current and future challenges. As well as imparting methodological skills and disciplinary knowledge, it also encourages interdisciplinary ways of thinking. The students learn to think critically and act responsibly and work in a team.  
Many of our students live in self-organised shared accommodation in Zurich or the surrounding area. They take advantage of the large range of “ASVZ” sports activities, play in the Academic Orchestra or the Big Band, or take part in the activities of student clubs or associations. In their free time Zurich’s lively nightlife, the lake and the nearby mountains also beckon. Zurich regularly achieves a top spot in global city rankings – but it also features one of the highest costs of living. ETH Zurich tuition fees, however, are the same for everyone and are low by international standards.
The ASVZ offers all university members an attractive and varied sports program, which includes plenty of opportunities to discover new activities but also old favorites. The ASVZ is all about people, the joy of exercise, fitness, work/study-life balance and improving the quality of life.
Like the sound of studying and researching close to Zurich’s old town? Working with a view of the Alps? ETH Zurich's locations are distinguished by their prominent position and are easily accessible by public transport. They have modern infrastructures for teaching, research and leisure and are open to guests and visitors. Lively squares and streets adorned with restaurants, cafés, shops and exhibitions, as well as gardens and ample green spaces, are all part of the urban experience at ETH Zurich.
ETH Zurich is baded chiefly in Zurich, where it operates one campus in the Hönggerberg district and another in the city centre. Both offer a full range of services around teaching, research, and knowledge transfer, as well as leisure services. The main site is completed by strategically selected "external sites" in the Canton of Zurich, in Switzerland and in Singapore.
ETH Zurich was founded on 7 February 1854 by the Swiss Confederation and began giving its first lectures on 16 October 1855 as a polytechnic institute (eidgenössische polytechnische Schule) at various sites throughout the city of Zürich.[1] It was initially composed of six faculties: architecture, civil engineering, mechanical engineering, chemistry, forestry, and an integrated department for the fields of mathematics, natural sciences, literature, and social and political sciences.
Ever since it was founded under the name “Polytechnikum” back in 1855, ETH Zurich has been a national educational institution of international standing, attracting talent from all over the world. The successful combination of cosmopolitanism and strong connections at national level transformed the fledgling educational institution into one of the driving forces behind Swiss industrialisation: it has brought the necessary expertise into the country, trained experts and helped develop future-​oriented national infrastructures.
ETH Zurich was given its present name, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule), in 1911. Over the decades that followed, it entered into solid partnerships with the state and with industry and invested increasingly in both applied and fundamental research, which were gaining in importance in relation to education. The university grew steadily and in 1961 it embarked on the first stage of constructing its second site on the Hönggerberg, on the outskirts of Zurich.
ETH Zurich has two campuses. The main building was constructed 1858–1864 outside and right above the eastern border of the town, but nowadays it is located right in the heart of the city. As the town and university grew, ETH Zurich spread into the surrounding vineyards and later quarters. As a result, the Zentrum campus consists of various buildings and institutions throughout Zürich and firmly integrates the ETH Zurich in the city. The main building stands directly across the street from the University Hospital of Zurich and the University of Zurich.
Kyoto University has 10 Faculties, all offering undergraduate degrees. The total enrollment as of May 2017 included 229 international students. In their first academic year, students take University-wide liberal arts and science courses covering common subjects, some taught in English. Subsequently or concurrently, they also begin to study subjects from their chosen fields.
Inter-school year/laboratory sports competitions are held with the support of Kyodai Yakuyukai. Baseball tournaments (baseball for male students, softball for female students) are held in summer through fall and volleyball tournaments take place in fall, with fierce competition, contributing to promotion of unity within each school year and each laboratory and to enhancement of interaction among students.
At KSU, students are highly engaged in extracurricular activities. A wide range of teams, clubs, and circles, both athletic and cultural, are available to choose from, using our fully-equipped facilities, to make student life more fulfilling. Many of our teams compete at a national level.
Kyoto University's forerunner was the Chemistry School (舎密局, Seimi-kyoku) founded in Osaka in 1869, which, despite its name, taught physics as well (舎密 is a transcription of a Dutch word chemie). Later, the Third Higher School (第三髙等學校, Daisan-kōtō-gakkō), was established in the place of Seimi-kyoku in 1886, it then transferred to the university's present main campus in the same year. Kyoto Imperial University (京都帝國大學, Kyōto-teikoku-daigaku) as a part of the Imperial University system was established on June 18, 1897,[3] using the Third Higher School's buildings. The higher school moved to a patch of land across the street, where the Yoshida South Campus stands today, and was integrated into Kyoto University in May 1949 and became the College of Liberal Arts in September 1949.[6][7] In the same year of the university's establishment, the College of Science and Technology was founded. The College of Law and the College of Medicine were founded in 1899, the College of Letters in 1906, expanding the university's activities to areas outside natural science.
Kyoto Imperial University was founded by imperial ordinance on 18 June 1897, the second university to be established in Japan. Within ten years of the founding of the University, the Colleges of Science and Engineering, Law, Medicine, and Letters were opened. In July 1914 the College of Science and Engineering was divided into the College of Science and the College of Engineering, giving the University five Colleges. In accordance with the promulgation of the Imperial University Law, the Colleges were reorganized in February 1919 to form the Faculties of Law, Medicine, Engineering, Letters, and Science, and in the following May the Faculty of Economics was established.
The prewar and war years were a difficult period for the University, but with the end of the war a liberal atmosphere was restored, and in March 1947 the School Education Law was enacted, bringing widespread reforms to the Japanese education system. The aims of this reform were to affirm the principles of equal educational opportunity, and to expand all levels of education, including higher education. In October 1947 Kyoto Imperial University was renamed Kyoto University. In May 1949 the National School Establishment Law was enacted and Kyoto University was reorganized as a four-year instead of a three-year university. The 8th faculty, the Faculty of Education, was also established that year.
The Weizmann Institute conducts research and offers graduate education in the breadth of scientific disciplines, with an emphasis on cross-disciplinary investigation. The Institute is comprised of five faculties and 18 departments and additional service units.
The faculty consists of the Department of Mathematics and the Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics. The research carried out in the faculty ranges from abstract and theoretical studies within mathematics and computer science, through using and applying mathematics and computer science in other sciences, to their application in concrete industrial developments.
The Faculty of Chemistry advances the dream of Dr. Chaim Weizmann, an organic chemist, who was the original visionary of the Weizmann Institute of Science. Research in the Faculty covers a broad spectrum of avenues, ranging from theory to experimentation, and from the nano to the planetary scales.
The Department of Science Teaching at the Weizmann Institute was created in 1968 by Professor Amos De Shalit. It is a full-fledged academic department whose main mission is to advance the field of science and mathematics education at large, and to advance science and mathematics education in Israel. A central goal of the department is to develop academic and practical leadership in mathematics and science education.
Student life at the Weizmann Institute of Science is vibrant and stimulating. The focal point for all students is the Feinberg Graduate School at the David Lopatie Hall of Graduate Studies, in the heart of the Weizmann Institute campus on the main road. Masters and PhD students are able to devote their time to their coursework and lab work because of the supportive environment created by FGS, from a policy of tuition-free studies thanks to generous monthly scholarships for the duration of studies to easily accessible services of all kinds.
The Weizmann Institute of Science is one of the world’s leading multidisciplinary basic research institutions in the natural and exact sciences. It is located in Rehovot, Israel, just south of Tel Aviv. It was initially established as the Daniel Sieff Institute in 1934, by Israel and Rebecca Sieff of London in memory of their son Daniel. In 1949, it was renamed for Dr. Chaim Weizmann, the first President of the State of Israel and Founder of the Institute.
Founded in 1934 by Chaim Weizmann and his first team, among them Benjamin M. Bloch, as the Daniel Sieff Research Institute. Weizmann had offered the post of director to Nobel Prize laureate Fritz Haber, but took over the directorship himself after Haber's death en route to Palestine. Before he became President of the State of Israel in February 1949, Weizmann pursued his research in organic chemistry at its laboratories. The institute was renamed the Weizmann Institute of Science in his honor on November 2, 1949, in agreement with the Sieff family. WEIZAC, one of the world's first electronic computers was locally built by the institute in 1954–1955 and was recognized by the IEEE in 2006 as a milestone achievement in the history of electrical and electronic engineering.[7] In 1959, the institute set up a wholly owned subsidiary called Yeda Research and Development Company to commercialize inventions made at the institute.[8] Yeda has more marine genetic patents than any other research institute.[9] By 2013 the institute was earning between $50 and $100 million in royalties annually on marketed drugs including Copaxone, Rebif, and Erbitux.[10][11]
The Weizmann Institute was founded by Dr. Chaim Weizmann (1874-1952) in 1934 as the Daniel Sieff Research Institute, named in memory of the son of U.K. donors Rebecca and Israel Sieff. The Institute was renamed in honor of Dr. Weizmann in 1949. Dr. Weizmann was a renowned chemist and ardent Zionist who saw his vision of the establishment of a Jewish state in the Land of Israel and of higher education in Israel all come to fruition during his lifetime. In partnership with others he established the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1925 and the Weizmann Institute of Science.
UCLA offers an astonishing breadth of academic opportunities. When you’re here, you can explore all of your interests to create a one-of-a-kind educational experience. Our curriculum features more than 3,900 courses, 130 majors and 90 minors for undergraduates.
Our compact class sizes enable you to work closely with our amazing faculty and get to know other students. Two out of three UCLA classes have 30 or fewer students. Even smaller are the 200 freshman seminars called “Fiat Lux” (Let There Be Light), each with an intriguing topic and only 10–20 students. Interdisciplinary Programs If you are interested in academic disciplines combined in innovative ways, consider interdepartmental majors like global studies, environmental science or neuroscience — taught in collaboration with both medical school and life sciences faculty. Each of our general education “clusters” is a yearlong series of classes with a unifying theme, taught by an interdisciplinary team.
UCLA offers multiple options for students to begin and finish their degree program that suits their individual needs. You can earn two degrees at once, study abroad, or earn your master's degree as an undergraduate. The undergraduate and graduate degree search page displays information about the program, a major map showing the courses you will need to take each semester, and other special offerings specific to your chosen course of study. Find the perfect major. UCLA offers more than 250 programs, taught by skilled, student-focused professors. You’ll have the knowledge, experiences and opportunities to deeply explore your interests. Whether you're an undergraduate student pursuing a bachelor's degree – including 125 undergraduate majors and 90 minors — or a graduate student pursuing a master's or doctoral program — 120 graduate and doctoral programs for you to explore — we can help you find the program that fits you. For students who are unsure what major they want to pursue, UCLA offers new student sessions. Through these sessions, students are assisted in choosing majors, planning courses, and understanding graduation requirements, so they can explore a variety of options before deciding on one.
Explore UCLA’s master’s and doctoral degree programs offered in 120+ academic and professional fields of study. UCLA’s graduate programs have a reputation for producing professionals, researchers and leaders who have a major impact on the world. With more than 40 programs ranked among the best in the nation, UCLA gives today’s graduate students the cutting-edge resources and mentorship they need to go out and leave their own indelible mark. And with the second largest city in the U.S. in our backyard, learning extends beyond the classroom. Engaging with the community while being part of an academic system that is well connected and respected throughout the world creates an educational experience that cannot be replicated anywhere else.
If you’re not sure of a major yet, don’t worry. Many freshmen change their major while at UCLA. Thanks to the breadth of our top-ranked academic program and our cross-disciplinary approach provide, you’ll have endless opportunities to find your path. And our 10-week quarter system lets you sample a multitude of subjects and classes. Freshmen generally decide on a major by the end of their sophomore year. Transfer students declare a major when applying and must satisfy lower-level course requirements to do so. You may be able to add a minor in an area that interests you.
UCLA offers multiple options for students to begin and finish their degree program that suits their individual needs. You can earn two degrees at once, study abroad, or earn your master's degree as an undergraduate. The undergraduate and graduate degree search page displays information about the program, a major map showing the courses you will need to take each semester, and other special offerings specific to your chosen course of study. Find the perfect major. UCLA offers more than 250 programs, taught by skilled, student-focused professors. You’ll have the knowledge, experiences and opportunities to deeply explore your interests. Whether you're an undergraduate student pursuing a bachelor's degree – including 125 undergraduate majors and 90 minors — or a graduate student pursuing a master's or doctoral program — 120 graduate and doctoral programs for you to explore — we can help you find the program that fits you. For students who are unsure what major they want to pursue, UCLA offers new student sessions. Through these sessions, students are assisted in choosing majors, planning courses, and understanding graduation requirements, so they can explore a variety of options before deciding on one.
Designed as a “college in a garden,” the 419-acre Westwood campus sprawls across the Santa Monica Mountain foothills and south into the Los Angeles basin. You might wonder if every building, bench and path has a story to tell. Chances are, they do. Stand where MLK Jr. gave his “Segregation Must Die” speech at the base of Janss Steps. Marvel at the red brick Romanesque Revival architecture of Powell Library, where Bradbury wrote Fahrenheit 451. Stroll past 16 different recreation centers, the playgrounds for Olympic medalists and mere mortals alike. And don’t forget to stop for a selfie at the birthplace of the Internet.
Sports and Recreation Whether it’s for competition or simply for fun, students are active in just about every imaginable sport or recreational activity. With 15 multipurpose workout facilities and six pools spread throughout campus, UCLA Recreation sponsors instructional classes, an intramural sports program that consists of 30 leagues, tournaments, meets and special events, and 50 club sports. The UCLA Marina Aquatic Center, located in Marina Del Rey, offers instruction and equipment for rowing, kayaking, sailing, surfing, windsurfing and paddleboarding.
The new UCLA campus in 1929 had four buildings: Royce Hall and Haines Hall on the north, and Powell Library and Kinsey Hall (now called Renee And David Kaplan Hall) on the south. The Janss Steps were the original 87-step entrance to the university that lead to the quad of these four buildings. Today, the campus includes 163 buildings across 419 acres (1.7 km2) in the western part of Los Angeles, north of the Westwood shopping district and just south of Sunset Boulevard. In terms of acreage, it is the second-smallest of the ten UC campuses.[10] The campus is approximately 1 mile east of I-405 (the San Diego Freeway).[54]
The campus is in the residential area of Westwood and bordered by Bel-Air to the north, Beverly Hills to the east, and Brentwood to the west. The campus is informally divided into North Campus and South Campus, which are both on the eastern half of the university's land. North Campus is the original campus core; its buildings are more traditional in appearance and clad in imported Italian brick. North Campus is home to the arts, humanities, social sciences, law, history, and business programs and is centered around ficus and sycamore-lined Dickson Court, also known as the "Sunken Garden". South Campus is home to the physical sciences, life sciences, engineering, mathematical sciences, health-related fields, and the UCLA Medical Center. The campus includes sculpture gardens, fountains, museums, and a mix of architectural styles.
There are a variety of cultural organizations on campus, such as Nikkei Student Union (NSU), Japanese Student Association (JSA),[180] Association of Chinese Americans (ACA), Chinese Students and Scholars Association (CSSA), Chinese Music Ensemble (CME), Chinese Cultural Dance Club (CCDC), Taiwanese American Union (TAU), Taiwanese Student Association (TSA), Hong Kong Student Society (HKSS), Hanoolim Korean Cultural Awareness Group, Samahang Pilipino, Vietnamese Student Union (VSU), and Thai Smakom. Many of these organizations have an annual "culture night" consisting of drama and dance which raises awareness of culture and history to the campus and community.
Under UC President William Wallace Campbell, enrollment at the Southern Branch expanded so rapidly that by the mid-1920s the institution was outgrowing the 25 acre Vermont Avenue location. The Regents searched for a new location and announced their selection of the so-called "Beverly Site"—just west of Beverly Hills—on March 21, 1925, edging out the panoramic hills of the still-empty Palos Verdes Peninsula. After the athletic teams entered the Pacific Coast conference in 1926, the Southern Branch student council adopted the nickname "Bruins", a name offered by the student council at UC Berkeley.[37] In 1927, the Regents renamed the Southern Branch the University of California at Los Angeles (the word "at" was officially replaced by a comma in 1958, in line with other UC campuses).[1] In the same year, the state broke ground in Westwood on land sold for $1 million, less than one-third its value, by real estate developers Edwin and Harold Janss, for whom the Janss Steps are named.[31] The campus in Westwood opened to students in 1929.
On May 23, 1919, the Southern Californians' efforts were rewarded when Governor William D. Stephens signed Assembly Bill 626 into law, which acquired the land and buildings and transformed the Los Angeles Normal School into the Southern Branch of the University of California. The same legislation added its general undergraduate program, the Junior College.[32] The Southern Branch campus opened on September 15 of that year, offering two-year undergraduate programs to 250 Junior College students and 1,250 students in the Teachers College, under Moore's continued direction.[33] Southern Californians were furious that their so-called "branch" provided only an inferior junior college program (mocked at the time by University of Southern California students as "the twig"),[34] and continued to fight Northern Californians (specifically, Berkeley) for the right to three and then four years of instruction, culminating in bachelor's degrees. On December 11, 1923, the Board of Regents authorized a fourth year of instruction and transformed the Junior College into the College of Letters and Science,[35] which awarded its first bachelor's degrees on June 12, 1925.[36]
During its first 32 years, UCLA was treated as an off-site department of UC. As such, its presiding officer was called a "provost", and reported to the main campus in Berkeley. In 1951, UCLA was formally elevated to co-equal status with UC Berkeley, and its presiding officer Raymond B. Allen was the first chief executive to be granted the title of chancellor. The appointment of Franklin David Murphy to the position of Chancellor in 1960 helped spark an era of tremendous growth of facilities and faculty honors. By the end of the decade, UCLA had achieved distinction in a wide range of subjects. This era also secured UCLA's position as a proper university and not simply a branch of the UC system. This change is exemplified by an incident involving Chancellor Murphy, which was described by him:
It’s a time to challenge preconceived notions and pursue your passions. So jump in. Lead a student organization. Discover new lands through study abroad. Join an intercollegiate team. Volunteer in the community. Now is the time!
At UC San Diego, we encourage you to focus on what excites you—because having a balanced life is essential to success. With more than 500 student organizations on campus, there is no shortage of opportunities to express yourself, grow into a leader and make meaningful connections.
From Greek organizations to community service, the Center for Student Involvement supports a culture of high academic achievement, personal growth, and cultivation of leadership abilities.
Student Life is dedicated to empowering leaders for a just and humane world by cultivating a community that is anti-racist, and supporting people and their intersecting identities. We are committed to recognizing diversity as an active process and not an end result.
When the Regents of the University of California originally authorized the San Diego campus in 1956, it was planned to be a graduate and research institution, providing instruction in the sciences, mathematics, and engineering.[28] Local citizens supported the idea, voting the same year to transfer to the university 59 acres (24 ha) of mesa land on the coast near the preexisting Scripps Institution of Oceanography. The Regents requested an additional gift of 550 acres (220 ha) of undeveloped mesa land northeast of Scripps, as well as 500 acres (200 ha) on the former site of Camp Matthews from the federal government, but Roger Revelle, then director of Scripps Institution and main advocate for establishing the new campus, jeopardized the site selection by exposing the La Jolla community's exclusive real estate business practices, which were antagonistic to minority racial and religious groups. This outraged local conservatives, as well as Regent Edwin W. Pauley.[28] Revelle also got involved in a bitter debate with Jonas Salk over where Salk's proposed institute would be located relative to the new campus.[28]
UC San Diego is located in the residential neighborhood of La Jolla of northern San Diego, bordered by the communities of La Jolla Shores, Torrey Pines, and University City. The main campus consists of 761 buildings that occupy 1,152 acres (466 ha), with natural reserves covering about 889 acres (360 ha) and outlying facilities taking up the remaining area.[12] The San Diego Freeway passes through the campus and separates Jacobs Medical Center and Mesa apartment housing from the greater part of the university. The Preuss School, a college-preparatory charter school established and administered by UC San Diego, also lies on the eastern portion of the campus.
The core of New York University is the academic enterprise. The best students and faculty are drawn to the University by the allure of being part of a compelling intellectual and creative enterprise — a community of scholars characterized by collaboration, innovation, and incandescent teaching. NYU students get the experience of attending a truly global university, anchored in New York City but with nodes throughout the world. Learning opportunities present themselves both in and out of the classroom, befitting an institution that is and always has been “in and of the city”. And now our students and faculty are global citizens, exposed to culture, students, faculties and research opportunities throughout the world.
NYU has over 400 clubs and organizations, 21 varsity sports, 21 club sports, a wide range of intramural teams, musical and choral performance groups, and many community service and leadership opportunities available to you outside of the classroom. During your time in NY, we encourage you to explore NYU’s extra-curricular offerings as a way to integrate with NYU New York’s student body, to take advantage of opportunities not available in Abu Dhabi or Shanghai, and provide a balance with your studies. Check out the Center for Student Life on the 7th floor of the Kimmel Center for University Life and the Department of Athletics to learn more.
Why Study History? For a great many people, history is a set of facts, a collection of events, a series of things that happened, one after another, in the past. In fact, history is far more than these things-- it is a way of thinking about and seeing the world. To genuinely make sense of the past, you need to learn how to see it on its own terms, how to make the strange and unfamiliar logical and the comprehensible, and how to empathize with people who once thought so differently than we do today. If you learn how to do these things, you begin to cultivate a crucial set of skills that not only help navigate the past, but the present as well. Once you can see the things that history teaches you, once you know how to penetrate unfamiliar modes of thought and behavior and can understand their inner logic, it becomes easier to make sense of the modern world and the diverse peoples and ideas that you will confront within it
Duke’s History Department —among the top programs in the country —regards the creation of knowledge as one of the fundamental missions of a research university. Our world-renowned faculty, who work closely with our students and collaborate with colleagues across disciplines, are at the cutting edge of research in their fields as they address society’s greatest challenges. And our graduate and undergraduate academic programs —designed to help students critically think about the world around them —successfully prepare students for a wide range of careers.
The popularity of history among Cornell students is due to its usefulness as preparation for graduate, professional, or law school and for any career that requires critical thinking and good writing; the reputation of the faculty for scholarship, teaching, and advising; and most of all, the intrinsic interest of the discipline. A wide variety of introductory and advanced courses is offered. The department is particularly strong in ancient, medieval, and modern European history; in American, African, Latin American, Caribbean, and Asian history; and in the history of science.
We are one of the country’s most distinguished and dynamic history departments, with an illustrious track record of excellence in undergraduate education. Our professors include specialists in every time period, in just about every part of the world, and in a wide range of timely topics. We pride ourselves in offering small classes where you can connect with other students, engage in stimulating conversation and debate, and develop lasting intellectual and professional relationships with renowned historians.
The History Department offers a large number of courses, taught by approximately sixty faculty, that cover all periods of recorded human history. The Barnard History Department offers its own set of courses, most of which are open to Columbia College and General Studies students. There are additional history courses and historians in related departments (Classics, Religion, MESAAS, EALAC, etc.). Courses address the histories of the Ancient World, Europe, Middle East, Africa, East Asia, South Asia, Latin America, and the United States. Some courses cut across geographical boundaries to deal with transnational themes. Other courses focus on religious, intellectual, social, economic, legal, or political history, as well as historical theory and method.
The majority of Columbia's graduate and undergraduate studies are conducted in Morningside Heights on Seth Low's late-19th century vision of a university campus where all disciplines could be taught at one location. The campus was designed along Beaux-Arts planning principles by the architects McKim, Mead & White. Columbia's main campus occupies more than six city blocks, or 32 acres (13 ha), in Morningside Heights, New York City, a neighborhood that contains a number of academic institutions. The university owns over 7,800 apartments in Morningside Heights, housing faculty, graduate students, and staff. Almost two dozen undergraduate dormitories (purpose-built or converted) are located on campus or in Morningside Heights. Columbia University has an extensive tunnel system, more than a century old, with the oldest portions predating the present campus. Some of these remain accessible to the public, while others have been cordoned off.
The UC San Diego History major prepares students for a wide variety of rewarding careers. Thematic, pre-professional, and geographic Fields of Emphasis allow students to focus their study from broad range of interests. Undergraduate students interested in pursuing a graduate degree are well served by our Honors Program. Likewise, the department encourages its majors to further enrich their college experience through Study Abroad.
Welcome to the UCI History Department!  We believe the study of history is crucial to understanding the contemporary world.  We offer exciting undergraduate and graduate courses from antiquity to the present and from across the globe: Latin America, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, Europe, the United States, and more. We have particular strengths in transnational and world history, and we offer classes in range of thematic fields: histories of gender and sexuality; science and medicine; global migrations, race, and diasporas; religion and environment.  Whether you are looking for a general education class or to specialize in history as undergraduate major or graduate degree, we’ve got courses for you. The Department includes approximately 35 faculty members who are also involved in many interdisciplinary programs at UCI, such as Medical Humanities, Global Middle East Studies, Early Cultures, Latin American Studies, African American Studies, Chicano-Latino Studies, Asian American Studies, European Studies, East Asian Languages, the Long US-China Institute, the Center for Armenian Studies, the Center for Jewish Studies, the Jordan Center for Persian Studies, and more.  Our faculty stress that the study of history is excellent preparation for multiple career options: teaching, law, public policy, science, business, journalism, and more. We offer extracurricular opportunities to support students in translating academic training to non-academic settings.
The layout of the core campus resembles a rough circle with its center being Aldrich Park (initially known as Central Park), lined up by the Ring Mall and buildings surrounding the road. To further emphasize the layout, academic units are positioned relative to the center, wherein undergraduate schools are closer to the center than the graduate schools.[39] Aldrich Park is planted with over 11,120 trees (there are over 24,000 trees on the entire campus), including 33 species of eucalyptus. Two ceremonial trees were planted in 1990, one for Arbor Day and the second for former chancellor Daniel Aldrich who had died that year. On the first anniversary of the September 11th tragedies, the chancellor planted a bay laurel tree in remembrance of the heroes and victims of the events of September 11, 2001. The tree itself was a gift from the UCI Staff Assembly. Aldrich Park is the site for "Wayzgoose", a medieval student festival held each year in conjunction with the "Celebrate UCI" open house. It also hosts many extracurricular activities.
Although named after the City of Davis, the campus is technically located adjacent to the City of Davis in an unincorporated part of Yolo and Solano counties. The main campus is located 15 miles (24.1 km) west of Sacramento in the Sacramento Valley, part of California's Central Valley, and is adjacent to Interstate 80. The city of Davis is a college town, with the ratio of students to long-term residents estimated at 1:4. Also contributing to the college-town environment is the close proximity of downtown Davis to the campus' main quad—a matter of a few blocks, and 5- to 10-minute walk or bike ride. Davis' 15-minute distance from Sacramento provides it with both the isolation critical to fostering a college-town environment while also providing a lively and large metropolitan area nearby. Although the campus itself is vast, the entire community of Davis is relatively small and is easily traversable on bike utilizing Davis' extensive bicycle trails.
The history faculty at UC Davis is distinguished by the high quality of both its teaching and research. Faculty interests range far afield in time and topic. The Department of History has strength in the fields of social and cultural history, women's history, and the history of science. We also offer geographically defined courses of study in: Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, Middle East, and World. Faculty members hold Ph.D. degrees from a range of distinguished institutions from across the country. Visit the People area for a list of Department of History professors and their areas of interest.
Los Angeles was a rough-and-tumble frontier town in the early 1870s, when a group of public-spirited citizens led by Judge Robert Maclay Widney first dreamed of establishing a university in the region. It took nearly a decade for this vision to become a reality, but in 1879 Widney formed a board of trustees and secured a donation of 308 lots of land from three prominent members of the community – Ozro W. Childs, a Protestant horticulturist; former California governor John G. Downey, an Irish-Catholic pharmacist and businessman; and Isaias W. Hellman, a German-Jewish banker and philanthropist. When USC first opened its doors to 53 students and 10 teachers in 1880, the “city” still lacked paved streets, electric lights, telephones and a reliable fire alarm system. Today, USC is home to more than 48,000 students and over 4,400 full-time faculty, and is located in the heart of one of the biggest metropolises in the world.
The History Major offers students a means to encounter the peoples and cultures of the past and develop critical thinking, research, and writing skills essential for understanding the present. The program exposes students to underlying connections between the study of past times and places and the roots of that study in human concerns about values, identities, issues, and policies. In their lower-division courses, majors will have the opportunity to explore the histories of different cultures across time. Students at the upper-division level tailor their studies to a thematic, temporal, or geographic concentration in line with their own interests. While working in their concentration and across the major, students have an opportunity to reflect both on what historians do and how and why they do it. The History Major at USC helps students both to explore the entirety of the human past and to shape a major that has personal and academic meaning.
The Department of History is pleased to offer a host of courses focused on law, including HISU 2910, Law and US History. This course surveys the history of the United States through legal cases from the revolutionary era to the present day. Through sensational murder trials and major Supreme Court precedents, students will explore the intersections of history and law. HISU 2910 is especially recommended for pre-law students, but all of our courses emphasize the kinds of skills students go on to use in law school. Don’t just take our word for it! Brandon Sprague, Class of 2019 and winner of the Tulane Law 34 Award: “My studies as a history major prepared me immensely for my time in law school. Law school requires reading sources of law, evaluating arguments, and articulating your conclusions persuasively, either orally or in writing, but I came to law school with a leg up, having already learned these skills through my history classes. My history assignments regularly asked me to read historical sources, come to a position about a certain question, and advocate for that position, whether through papers or seminar discussions.”
Tulane's history dates back to 1834, when the Medical College of Louisiana was founded to serve the rapidly expanding city of New Orleans. Tulane became a private university in 1884 when the public University of Louisiana was reorganized and named in honor of benefactor Paul Tulane, a wealthy merchant who bequeathed more than $1 million to endow a university "for the promotion and encouragement of intellectual, moral and industrial education." A native of Princeton, New Jersey, Paul Tulane had made his fortune in New Orleans and his gift expressed his appreciation to this Southern city on the Mississippi River.
Tulane's primary campus is located in Uptown New Orleans on St. Charles Avenue, directly opposite Audubon Park, and extends north to South Claiborne Avenue through Freret and Willow Street. The campus is known colloquially as the Uptown or St. Charles campus. It was established in the 1890s and occupies more than 110 acres (0.45 km2) of land. The campus is known both for its large live oak trees as well as its architecturally historic buildings. It has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places since 1978. The campus architecture consists of several styles, including Richardsonian Romanesque, Elizabethan, Italian Renaissance, Mid-Century Modern, and contemporary styles. The front campus buildings use Indiana White Limestone or orange brick for exteriors, while the middle campus buildings are mostly adorned in red St. Joe brick, the staple of Newcomb College Campus buildings. Loyola University is directly adjacent to Tulane, on the downriver side. Audubon Place, where the President of Tulane resides, is on the upriver side. The President's residence is the former home of "banana king" Sam Zemurray, who donated it in his will.
In 1847, the Universalist Church organized an educational convention to discuss the potential establishment of a college for the Universalists. The first provisional Board of Trustees was selected and began working to raise funds and choose a site. Earlier in the decade, Charles Tufts, who had accumulated significant wealth and land holdings from his family’s brick manufacturing business, had donated 20 acres of land to the Church to be used for establishing a college. Tufts’ land included one of the highest hills in the Boston area, Walnut Tree Hill, straddling the cities of Medford and Somerville. After much debate among the Trustees, in 1851 the Medford land was selected as the site of Tufts College and Charles Tufts later donated an additional 80 acres to the campus.
A degree in history develops skills in analysis and writing that can lead to careers in many fields, such as education, government and law, but also medicine or the sciences. Small course sizes and faculty dedicated to undergraduate education create a favorable environment for intellectual exploration. The History department gives students the primary skills and encouragement to engage in their own research and scholarship. The Foundation Seminar, research seminars and the possibility for independent study provide the building blocks for students interested in writing a senior thesis. The thesis exchange during the Senior year is a forum for students to develop their projects and learn from their colleagues.
Our main campus is located in the picturesque Chestnut Hill neighborhood of Newton, just a short drive from downtown Boston and accessible by public transportation. This campus houses the University’s oldest buildings, most of its academic and residence halls, athletic facilities, and dining locations.
Boston College was founded in 1863 by the Society of Jesus (the Jesuits) to educate Boston's predominantly Irish, Catholic immigrant community. It opened its doors on September 5, 1864, in a building on Harrison Avenue in Boston's South End, a “small streetcar college” for commuting students.
Why study history?  Simply put, studying history is important in order to fully understand the complexities of this modern globalized world. Going far beyond the simple memorization of dates and events, students develop critical thinking skills, learn to write persuasively, and increase their cultural awareness. All of these skills are valued in any profession so while students may decide to continue on to study history at a graduate level, our majors also enter other professional fields such as law, business, government and foreign service, journalism, and teaching. At BC, our distinguished faculty members are active participants in the scholarly community, and they share their passion for innovative research through teaching and mentorship. The wealth of historical resources in the Boston area means that our students not only benefit from working closely with the faculty, but also from having access to world-class libraries, cultural institutions, and some of the oldest historical sites in the United States.
The University's campus is situated on 1,450 acres (Nipmuc land), mainly in the town of Amherst, but also partly in the neighboring town of Hadley. The campus extends about 1 mile (1.6 km) from the Campus Center in all directions and may be thought of as a series of concentric rings, with innermost ring harboring academic buildings and research labs, surrounded by a ring of the seven residential areas and two University owned apartment complexes. These include North Apartments, Sylvan, Northeast, Central, Orchard Hill, Southwest, Commonwealth Honors College Residential Complex, as well as the two University owned apartment complexes, North Village and Lincoln Apartments. These are in turn surrounded by a ring of athletic facilities, smaller administration buildings, and parking lots.
Pomona's 140-acre (57 ha) campus is in Claremont, California, an affluent suburban residential community[149] 35 miles (56 km) east of downtown Los Angeles.[53] It is directly northwest of the Claremont Village (the city's downtown commercial district) and directly south of the other contiguous Claremont Colleges.[150] The area has a Mediterranean climate[151] and consists of a gentle slope from the alluvial fan of San Antonio Creek in the San Gabriel Mountains to the north
Pomona College was incorporated on October 14, 1887, by a group of Congregationalists who wanted to recreate “a college of the New England type” on the West Coast. Instruction began the next year in a small, rented house in the city of Pomona. The following January, an unfinished hotel in nearby Claremont, along with the adjacent land, was given to the College. The College relocated there, but the name "Pomona College" stuck. Pomona awarded its first diplomas to the Class of 1894. By the 1920s, Pomona President James A. Blaisdell faced a difficult choice—to limit expansion to retain the College’s unique character or allow growth and expand into a university. Under Blaisdell’s guidance, the College chose a third path. Using Oxford and Cambridge as models, Pomona founded a consortium unlike any other in America.
The History Department offers an array of courses that span the globe, cross time, and take a penetrating look at social, cultural and political turning points and movements. As a student you will explore the diversity of the human experience while developing your focused examination of a particular region or theme of your choosing. You will see the world, events and people in all their complexity and contexts.
In September 1946, 86 students and seven faculty members opened a new “undergraduate school for men” in Claremont, California. Classes began even before a name was chosen; the school was incorporated as Claremont Men’s College in the spring of 1947. CMC was the third Claremont College, following Pomona College and Scripps College. Many of the first students, as well as the College’s president George Benson, were returning World War II GIs. The new college’s purpose was clear: to prepare future leaders of private and public enterprise through a distinctive liberal arts curriculum. Rather than train students for particular jobs in government and industry, CMC sought to produce graduates able to apply lessons from not only business and government courses, but the study of history, philosophy, literature, the arts, and sciences as well.
Cal Poly Pomona is located mostly in Pomona, a largely suburban city that is part of the Los Angeles metropolitan area, with portions in the neighboring unincorporated community of Ramona. The city of Pomona is located in the eastern portion of Los Angeles County and borders the neighboring county of San Bernardino to the east. The university's 1,725 acres (698 ha) campus[49] make it the second largest in the California State University system,[50] a figure which includes various facilities scattered throughout Southern California such as a 53-acre (21 ha) ranch in Santa Paula, California, 25-acre (10 ha) campus at the former Spadra Landfill (now known as "Spadra Ranch"),[51][52] and the Neutra VDL Studio and Residences in Silver Lake, Los Angeles. The university is currently negotiating the transfer of the 302 acre Lanterman Developmental Center from the State of California. The land is to be used for academic purposes and expansion of the Innovation Village and also shared by the California Highway Patrol, the California Air Resources Board and the California Conservation Corps. The transfer of the land is part of the Governor's 2015-2016 Proposed Budget.[53]
Cal Poly has one of the largest college campuses in the United States.[22] It owns 9,178 acres and is the second largest land-holding university in California.[6] The lands are used for student education and include the main campus, two nearby agricultural lands, and two properties in Santa Cruz County. Part of the Cal Poly property is the Swanton Pacific Ranch, a 3,200-acre (1,300 ha) ranch located in Santa Cruz County, California, outside the town of Davenport.
A history major is excellent preparation for students interested in a teaching career, the legal profession, or advanced work in the discipline. Students wishing to become business executives, administrators, and public servants profit immensely by gaining the methodological skills of the historian. Historians learn to gather, synthesize, analyze and interpret evidence; they become skilled in presenting their conclusions to a general audience in a lucid and logical manner.